Downloaded from
YTS.MX
- Hello. people
in the television.
I'm Danny McBride. the creator
of "The Righteous Gemstones."
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
Now. it is no mystery
that the Gemstones have
an array of vehicles.
whether it's a private jet--
three of them--
or fancy cars. swamp boats.
In this third season.
we introduce
a brand-new vehicle
that the Gemstones own--
a monster truck.
- ♪ Redeemer ♪
♪ Redeemer ♪
Now. how are we going to pull
off a monster truck?
Where are we going
to get it from?
How are we going to get it
to do some crazy stuff?
Everyone was worried.
I wasn't.
I knew all we had to do
was call our boys
Rick and Ryan
at The Metal Shop.
♪ ♪
- My name is Rick Disharoon.
and I'm the owner
of The Metal Shop--
Delmar. Delaware.
I work
with my daughter Jaclyn
and my wife. Sherri...
and my son Ryan.
who you may know
as an acclaimed
monster-truck driver.
Together with our crew
at The Metal Shop.
we build the toughest.
most innovative monster trucks
on the market.
It's more than just
a business.
It's a family affair.
Look. man. we're
the best in the business
when it comes to this.
♪ ♪
Come on. man. come on.
I got something important
to tell you.
Check this out.
I just got a phone call
from Danny McBride
with "The Righteous Gemstones."
- No way.
- Yeah. yeah. man.
Is that badass or what?
- Baby Billy--
- Baby Billy. yeah. Jesse.
What they want us to do--
they wanted the best
in the business to build them
a badass monster truck.
They want to call
it The Redeemer.
- Nice.
- I want 557 cubic inches
of big tire brand
and badass motor.
I want it to be
thumping and humping.
and I want smoke and flare.
- We'll build you something.
- They got to have this thing
in less than 30 days.
- God dang.
- [whistles]
- We can do it. man.
I know we can do it.
We all pull together.
we can knock this thing
out of the park.
This is a chance of a lifetime.
- We can do it.
I mean. for this kind of deal.
it's got to happen.
- That's what I'm
talking about. man.
And this truck is going to be
the baddest truck
that we've ever built.
and we're going
to make those guys proud
because I know that everybody
standing here.
everybody is going to make it
happen. am I right?
all: Yeah!
- Hell. yeah! Come on!
Let's get this done. man!
Put it all in here!
All right!
- All right. Metal Shop!
- One. two. three...
all: Metal Shop!
- Whoa. let's go!
- Now that we're on Max
and we're going to be running
for "The Righteous Gemstones."
the world is going
to see our work.
I mean. finally.
after all these years
of this quality craftsmanship.
the world can recognize
what we do.
This timeline is tight.
This is do or die.
♪ ♪
- The Metal Shop is comprised
of three different buildings.
We have a speed shop up front.
where my wife and my daughter
run all the office
and dailies.
- You better get back here
and clean this mess up.
Don't be running away
with the bear.
- We have a fabrication shop.
This is where
the truck is designed
and the body is built.
That is run by my son.
- First. we got to get
this design down. man.
We got to model this thing out.
- And then we have a man
that's just like a son to me--
Brandon. and he runs
the automotive.
Basically. it's where we build
the engines and install them.
- I got to make it perfect.
you know what I mean?
- You know what they say--
put lipstick on a pig.
you still got a pig.
- Oh. yeah.
- We're kind of like a force
to be reckoned with
in our industry.
You know. we have
monster trucks. drag cars.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa!
Man. we're in amusement parks.
I mean. we do everything.
from the Tilt-a-Whirl
to the roller coaster.
We don't just make the
biscuits--we cook them. baby.
- Whoo!
Look at this thing right here.
This thing is bad. dude.
I'm Ryan Disharoon. vice
president at The Metal Shop.
♪ ♪
Not all monster trucks
are alike.
and the reason why
is because everybody
has a different thing they want
to do with the monster truck.
The Gemstone truck
has to do two things.
Number one. it's
got to be reliable.
I got to make every single set
that they're
going to have me do.
Then it's got to be ready
to be around people
and do crazy stunts with it.
You know. how are we
going to implement
this crazy monster truck
around actors. famous people?
This is Danny McBride
standing next to this truck.
I'm not about to run this guy
over. you know what I mean?
There are four crucial parts
to this monster-truck build.
First up is the chassis.
That's the internal skeleton
of the truck.
Next. we'll attach the axles
to control our steering.
From there. we will mount
the engine and tires.
And after some testing.
final assembly.
the body goes on.
and she's ready to go.
- You know. building
a monster truck
is definitely unique.
in the sense
that it's built 100% here.
And it starts with Ryan. with
a design that's impeccable.
- So we got our main rails.
then we start doing
these tie-ins.
Shocks will go there.
So this is actually
a monster-truck rear.
This is where the tires
and wheels are going to mount.
and this right here
is where the shocks
are going to mount to it.
Here. suspension system.
So then you got
this body on here.
We got to make
all of our mounts.
Of course. we got
to have a bed also.
So. when I get the design done.
it's got to be perfect.
But that's just part of it.
It has to be built perfect.
Hey. guys.
- What's up?
- Hey. man.
- Zack is the perfect guy
to build this truck.
He's an amazing fabricator.
As you guys know.
the Gemstones
want something wild.
And this is our
premier race truck
that we're going to
be building for them.
but it's also going to
be a freestyle truck.
So it's got to do crazy stuff.
This is it
with all the components on it.
but then we also got to get
this blower motor in here.
And on this build.
I want to lower the engine.
I want to make this thing
so if they want us to go
into a crazy corner.
it's not going
to want to roll over.
'cause for the stunts. they
want to do a lot of drifting
and a lot of just blowing
through stuff.
You don't want to be flipping
it over. tearing up that body.
But I just wanted to implement
some "lower center of gravity"
thoughts.
- Okay.
- Mm-hmm.
- The reason we're placing this
engine so low in this truck
is to make it so it doesn't
flip over so easy.
It's gonna make it
easier and safer
for me to be able to pull
these Gemstones stunts off.
This is our standard big-block
Chevy that we always put in--
the 557.
And we'll actually be able
to move it up and down.
And so when this comes up
into here...
- Oh. wow.
- Let's just say it slams
on the bump stops. right?
- Man. that thing is close.
but it's perfect.
- It's cutting it close. man.
but that's as low
as you can go.
- Anybody can get it
any closer.
I would have to say that's one
of the definitely best designs
I've ever seen.
- Thank you. man.
- I love what I'm seeing. man.
It's definitely gonna look
like the Devil
will be driving that bad boy.
- Oh. yeah.
- But all we got to do now
is build it.
♪ ♪
- My name is Zack--
one of the "foremans"
here at The Metal Shop.
- First up. Zack will build
the chassis with steel tubing
from my designs.
- All right.
So. once I get that design
into my program.
I'll start
with the frame rails.
I'll run them through our
machine that cuts them all.
Then I build the bottom half
off of those frame rails.
♪ ♪
I use about 400 foot of tubing
that goes in each one
of these chassis.
- Get them babies clean.
♪ ♪
- Oh. that's hot. dog.
Whoo!
Shit!
- So we've bent up
all of our frame rails
for the bottom half.
Robert and Cody
are cleaning up all--
Shut the [bleep] up!
[tools whirring loudly]
♪ ♪
They're cleaning all the bottom
tubing for the bottom right now
to tie all
of our frame rails together.
Right now it's just a big pile
of tubing on the table.
and at some point.
it's going to take shape
into the bottom half
of our truck.
and we're just getting started.
♪ ♪
- Monster trucks began
in the late 1970s
and became popular
in the 1980s
as side acts for motocross.
tractor-pulling.
and mud-bogging events.
where they would do
car crushing to wow the fans.
They were originally built
from modified stock
pickup trucks
and today have evolved
into custom tube chassis
with fiberglass bodies.
Today they have their
own events. like Monster Jam.
They're usually divided
into two main categories--
racing and freestyle.
And no one has been
more recognizable in freestyle
than Dennis Anderson
and his Grave Digger.
- Hey. man!
- What's up. buddy?
- What are you doing?
- Riding. man.
How you doing?
- Oh. my God.
So good to see you. brother.
- Yeah.
- Oh. man.
Well. what do you got with you?
- I got
just another project. man.
- Man. she's sweet.
What is she--about a '68?
- No. it's a '67.
and this is what I had
when I was in high school.
- Oh. that's so cool. man.
Well. you know what?
You brought her
to the right place.
We'll make her badass.
I'm going to put
probably a 496 in it.
Look. man. let's go in here.
Dennis Anderson is the icon
of monster-truck motorsports.
We both mud-raced together.
We're best friends. you know.
He's like a brother to me.
How long we known
each other now?
- Man. I don't know. Rick.
It's been 35 years.
- Yeah.
You remember I was at
the four-wheel-drive jamboree.
but that day they asked me
to drive Grave Digger
and I wouldn't fit in the seat
because I was too big?
- Yeah. that's right.
- You got your hand caught
in the door of an elevator.
Yeah. we were all going
for autographs. I believe.
- Yeah. yeah. we were.
We were coming back.
and I was the wise guy going.
you know. follow me.
I know the shortcut
'cause I done been
in this building ten times.
- It was a freight elevator.
- Yeah. it went like this.
- Yep.
- One door went this way.
and the other went this way.
- Yeah. yeah. it was like
a frickin' guillotine.
- Ah!
The year was 1998
I started monster trucks.
My truck was Backdraft.
I raced from 1998 to 2006.
My truck was ahead
of its time.
and we went pro
after one year.
As we monster truck raced
over the years.
we became closer and closer.
- You told me about this place
when you were going to do it.
and then when I see it really
happen
and then the staff of people
that you have.
I'm honored to be a part
of anything
with The Metal Shop.
with Rick Disharoon.
with what you do.
- And you're a hero of mine.
always will be.
- Don't get stupid
and make me cry.
- [laughs]
♪ ♪
- Normally. we would take
about 60 days
to build a truck like this.
30?
That's gonna be tight.
So. while the chassis
is being built.
I had my number-one guy
in the performance shop
on the case.
Brandon's
a extremely smart mechanic
and also a shithead.
That pretty much sums him up.
- Stand by.
[speaks indistinctly]
- Do I look fat?
Do I look--
I feel like I look good
but for a fat guy.
Like. you know what I mean?
I'm like Brad Pitt
of the fat guys.
My name's Brandon.
I am the automotive
shop foreman.
The Gemstones are going to get
the best of the best.
We're going to make sure
this thing's bulletproof. man.
This is. like.
not a normal engine.
A regular engine--
200. 300 horsepower.
This thing is 1.500 horsepower.
Just idling it
makes 300 horsepower.
When you're building
the engine.
you kind of start
with your block.
then you go on
and start getting
your rods and pistons together.
This engine gets its power
'cause we got
a high-flowing head on it.
We got high compression.
The best way
to make horsepower
is with compression.
The piston is what compresses
the air and fuel together
to make the horsepower.
We need this truck
to be reliable
for the "Gemstones" shoot.
So we're custom-fitting
these pistons for reliability.
This truck's got to go 10.
15. 20 takes a day.
so we got to have a truck that
has big power
but can start every time
when they want it to start.
So right now we're doing
ring filing.
So these are too tight.
So he's going to come through.
cut them over here
on the cutter.
and now he's going to come back
and fit the ring into the hole.
The better the rings seal up.
the more horsepower you make.
and the more horsepower
you make.
the more stuff you can tear up.
I guess. really.
[chuckles]
What's up there. slap nuts?
- What's up. dog?
- Nothing. man.
You want to help finish
these piston rods up?
- Yeah. what you got?
- All right. grab one of them.
I'll show you how to
throw these together.
Usually when I'm
in the engine room.
I'm building with Jordan
most of the time.
Sometimes now I'm teaching
James. so he's learning.
I'm trying to get
this thing knocked out.
get a little help in here.
Yeah. oil your pin.
- I love a good oil pin.
- Oh. man. yeah.
slide her in there.
Pull her up. and then you
want to grab your rod.
You got to make sure
your chamfer's
over to your left-hand side
of your piston. man.
All right. now make sure you
hold your piston like this.
- Yeah. now I see.
- So piston like this.
Now put your chamfer
on that side.
- We work well together.
I can put up with his shit.
I can listen to him
and not get upset.
- How's everything else going?
- Can't complain.
You know what I mean?
- I feel like you can.
- I could complain.
- It's nice. 'cause I'm like
his dad but not his dad
but his brother
but not his brother.
- But he is kind of like my dad
'cause he wants to [bleep]
my mom. so it's like--
- You do have a hot mom.
I will give you that.
- You know what I mean?
- So now we got
a piston down in it.
We're actually getting the rod.
And then what we'll do is.
we'll flip it over.
and we're going to torque
the rod bolts.
- I love him to death.
Like. I would not be
where I'm at without him.
and that's wholehearted--
Well. all of this. but he's
the reason that I'm here.
♪ ♪
[bleep].
[laughter]
This never--
- Make me cry.
- This never happens.
- All right. so you got
a piston coming up.
making compression. pew.
1.500 horsepower out of it.
She's definitely going to be
badass for the Gemstones.
The Gemstones
are going to love it.
♪ ♪
- You guys ready?
- We're ready to go.
- Sick.
- Next up is attaching
the driver cage.
This is the most difficult
part of the chassis build.
- Somebody hold
this right here.
- I got this.
- Hold that lined up.
- Up on the top.
- We can build a truck
in 30 days.
but if anything goes wrong.
it's a problem.
- I need you to hold that whole
junction together right there.
- I'm gonna hold it there.
but double-check it
before you tack them.
- Okay.
- So this bar is here.
- Now. Cody.
- Yep.
- The symmetry of this truck
is what creates
such structural integrity.
you know.
Everything's got to be
distributed perfectly
right and left.
You can't have a little more
weight on the right
or a little more weight
on the left
or this bar is a little
different angle than that bar.
'cause if this thing
collapses. someone gets hurt.
it's my ass.
- Nobody moves.
Nobody gets hurt.
[dramatic music]
We drop what's called
a plumb bob down.
and we basically hold
all of that up there.
and we shift it
one way or another.
- Give it a nudge.
if you will.
No. more of a push.
- You're throwing me off.
- Really. our main focus
is making sure
that these drivers are safe.
- We're off now.
- No. too much. too much.
- We're good.
- Matt. right there. perfect.
And once it's centered up
in between them frame rails.
then we can go ahead
and just start laying tacks
everywhere. really.
just to lock it in there.
[rock music]
- Ah! I'm on fire!
- Smells like burning hair.
[laughter]
- This stinks.
- Oh. my goodness.
- So this cage
is all tacked up.
It's time to weld
this thing up. man.
♪ ♪
We actually work hand in
hand so well together.
♪ ♪
It just looks like this guy's
making this move.
and this guy's
making that move.
and there's sparks
coming over here.
and sparks going over there.
♪ ♪
Now we need to send the
chassis off-site
to get powder coated.
which would give
the fab shop some time
to complete some
of these other projects.
♪ ♪
We got the monster-truck
chassis getting built.
but there's more projects
rolling into the shop.
I mean. we've got a boat
that we're building.
but it's not just any boat--
it's a tiki boat.
Tipsy Tiki is a company
that runs party boats
in Maryland.
and they want us
to revolutionize
their existing
metal boat frames.
They want the new frame
to have a bar. a bathroom.
and a collapsible roof so it
can go up and down the highway
so they can bring
the party to future areas.
Well. I've got Ryan Bell
on the case.
He's going to come up
with something that's perfect.
- Marker.
- I'm Ryan Bell.
My job here at The Metal Shop
is shop foreman.
This is the design
of the tiki boat.
- Hey. we gonna be able to fish
off this thing
if we're building a boat?
- No. this is
for drinking purposes.
- Well. I like to get drunk
when I fish.
- I'm going to have Zeke
and Jackson helping me.
Most of the time.
Zeke's just like a head-down
type of guy who just--
he's all about work
and trying to get it done.
Jackson. on the other hand.
he's a goofball.
- Oh. my goodness.
- Yeah. I got a hole here.
Kind of like to have good
ventilation flow going.
Some people would like to put
a hole on the other side.
Not me. I like to keep
it trapped inside.
You know. it keeps it
nice and fresh.
- So. when we get down
to fine details on a project.
I always like to come in
and help.
I like to lend a hand.
because I am a fabricator.
I'm not just a designer.
I'm not just a boss.
- Get this man a helmet!
- I'm glad you were prepared.
- The most complex part
of the frame is the roof.
which we'll assemble
from four aluminum posts
That will allow it
to slide up and down.
[indistinct chatter.
welder buzzing loudly]
♪ ♪
- Weak side there.
These are different.
These are gonna be different.
- All right.
♪ ♪
- We're moving now. man.
We're moving now.
We're getting it.
I'm guessing this one
goes here probably.
There you go.
All right. yeah. so we're good.
- Where there's a will.
there's a way.
- The roof is all tacked up
and looking good.
Now the guys
just need to weld it.
- Knock. knock. mother[bleep]
- Oh. God.
- Got a lot of standing around
for someone who's supposed
to be building a boat.
- Marker.
My name is Jacklyn Disharoon.
I'm technically
the store manager.
I wear a lot of hats.
and I do a little bit
of babysitting
with these little shitheads.
What are you naming
this bad boy?
I mean. every boat
has to have a name.
We should have
a Metal Shop contest
to come up with the best name
for this build.
- Can we do it
between the automotive shop
and the fab-shop guys?
- That's a really good idea.
- Both shops are so competitive
with one another.
and just something
like this is just fun.
You come up with your names.
you come up with your names.
It's always
friendly competition.
but they are
competitions nonetheless.
- So what are we going
to name this thing?
- I was thinking. like.
Wasted Away or something.
- I was thinking something
like Freaky Tikis or something.
- "Freaky Tikis"? I like that.
- Yeah.
- The Wet Deck.
- Ooh. Wet Deck.
- Love spending time
on my Wet Deck.
[laughter]
- We got to do something
better than that. though.
We don't want them
automotive boys to beat us.
- Yeah. I know--
they'll probably come up
with something good.
- Yeah. they're ridiculous.
- I'm 100% with Deez Knotz.
- I feel like Deez Knotz.
That's my favorite.
- Deez Knotz.
- I think I'm going with it.
- It's very nautical.
also inappropriate.
but not too much.
This whole
boat-naming competition.
you're doing it disrespect
calling it a competition
because it was over from the
start. you know what I mean?
I mean. you've got pure wit
and excellence
over in the automotive shop.
And then you come
to the fab shop--
they've been breathing argon
entirely too long.
No. they ain't got nothing.
- Go ahead and write
that thing on that board.
- I'll put it up.
- Show 'em what we got.
This is for you.
[tool buzzing loudly]
- Watch.
- Should I put "Knotz"
with a Z?
- Yeah. Z it up.
Get it?
Deez Knotz.
Nautical-themed.
I mean. it's a perfect fit.
[smooches]
Hey. Zeke. see that?
We don't even need
the other two spots.
We're out of here.
- Hey. you wait.
You're going to need them.
They done put
a name on the board.
What the hell is Deez Knotz?
- I mean. it's not bad.
but I think
we can do better than that.
- I mean. we're not going
out there to tie knots.
Going out to get drunk.
- Like a party boat.
- It's a tiki boat.
- Yeah.
- You want to do Freaky Tiki?
- Let's do Freaky Tiki.
- Everybody gets
a little freaky.
- Sometimes you get a little
drunk. get a little freaky.
- We're just giving them
a little bit of what we got.
- It's definitely a lot better
than that one.
- Yeah. I think so.
[indistinct chatter]
Yep.
♪ ♪
- Oh. yeah.
- Oh. yeah. look at that thing.
- Phew.
The clock is ticking.
Now that the chassis is
back from powder coating.
it's time to put in the rear.
attach the suspension.
get the engine in.
and hook up the exhaust.
- She's shiny. boy.
- Let's get this sucker
unloaded. man.
- Yeah. let's get
this joker inside.
The timeline is hard
on our people.
Our employees are working 14
to 16 hours a day right now.
But I promised I would get
the Righteous Gemstones--
I'd get them in
and get them done.
right while we're trying to do
the tiki boat at the same time.
So it's made it
really kind of tough.
but we will get it done.
- The faster it gets unloaded.
the faster
it gets put together.
The next big step
in this build
is assembling the axles.
which hold the differentials.
which takes power
out to those big tires.
And we got to hook up
the steering
so we can turn
those big things. too.
Rear sitting here.
ready to rock and roll.
All we have to do now is.
James and I have got to put
this clam shell together.
Got to throw the tires
and wheels on it
so we can roll it in.
- And we still got
to do the motor. too.
- That's your deal.
- Yeah. but we got to get
all this and that--
we got a lot to do.
- I brought your
sleeping bag for you.
- I hope so.
- Let's get her knocked out.
- It's time.
- Let's party.
- First thing--
get all your parts lined up.
It's basically you're. like.
laying all your toys out.
So you got all your parts
laying there.
and then you got
to start building it.
but there ain't
no damn directions.
There's only what you know
in your head.
Most of the time.
every truck's so different.
we have to make everything.
There's no monster truck store.
so you just got
to start putting it together.
Hopefully it all fits.
♪ ♪
- Like a glove.
- Nice swing. dude.
- Oh.
- Perfect.
We ready to slam tires on it?
- Yeah.
- The small tires
are just temporary
so we can roll the rears in.
Once everything's done.
we'll swap these out
for big monster-truck tires
and get this thing up
to 11 feet high.
- I got it back here.
Don't worry.
♪ ♪
- Next step--
you're going to start
getting your rears
all together--
front differential.
rear differential.
Let me give you
the ratchet strap.
and I can ratchet-strap
these up real quick.
- Yeah. we're going
to tie them up.
- Hey. or just get
two big cable ties.
- It's something
that has to be custom made.
So to fit it in
was more than a notion.
The differential allows
each wheel
to spin at different speeds.
which is important
for smooth cornering.
And for the Gemstones build.
this is crucial.
However. this is a new chassis
designed for them.
so hopefully we can make
that happen.
- There's one thing
with monster trucks.
I like to be dangerous.
- All right. don't put
your hands over there
'cause Brandon's
choosing death today.
[laughter]
You got that bolt out. Brandon?
- Ooh. shit.
- There it is.
- Oh.
- See. Brandon?
[indistinct chatter]
- Let me go get the big ones.
- Yeah.
- Told you.
- All right.
There you go.
- You get them rears
underneath the truck.
then you can put
the shocks on it.
and then you can actually make
that truck sit
so it's on the suspension.
'cause if you just stick
that motor in the frame
without no suspension on it.
I mean.
it's going to tip backwards.
Hold on.
- Listen to that breathing.
- There it is.
- [breathing heavily]
- Jesus...
- [laughs]
Murder scenes have
been less noisy than this.
[laughter]
- Somebody get
this man a pillow
and some air conditioning.
[laughter]
- It's right.
Do you need a cool beverage?
- Ready?
One. two. three. go.
- Go!
- There it is.
- That's it.
- Give her
a little wiggle diggle.
- Ryan. ready?
- One wiggle diggle.
- One. two. diggle.
- All right. she's in.
Rears went in.
Now I can move on. set
that motor right in there.
and have it ready
to go for tranny
and all the rest of the stuff.
- Where are we at?
Let me know what's going down.
- Four link's in.
Rear's rolled in.
Now we're doing
the drive shaft.
Brandon almost dropped the
four link on our hand earlier.
- All right. well. look. man.
you guys keep moving.
- All right. cool.
- Thank you. guys.
Keep rocking.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
Been doing breakfast
for the shop since 2007.
We always do it on Wednesday.
We talk about what we've done
and where we're going
and what's going
on for the week.
and it's a family deal.
and a happy belly is usually
a happy heart.
- The breakfast is
really. like. one
of our biggest bonding things.
- Hey. guys!
Breakfast time!
- Hey. start here. Don't--
You like to bypass the line.
- Thank you for breakfast. man.
- Give me some bread.
Yeah. man.
- Good God.
- Oh. yeah.
- Look at this spread.
- This is spicy scrapple.
non-spicy.
- Sounds good.
Thank you.
- I think it makes everyone
feel important and loved.
And I like that I go
to work every day
and I feel like I'm at home.
- Ryan. where are we at
with the tiki boat going on?
- We're making good progress.
We've got pretty much the
whole bottom bar is framed up.
- Would you like to have
some extra hands over there?
- That'd be a big help because
we're trying to get it done
and I can't just rush on it.
- I appreciate that.
It's really. really important
that we get
this tiki boat done.
And if you guys need
anything from me today.
you come grab me.
You guys get at it.
all: Thank you.
- Next up. a crucial point
in the tiki-boat frame.
We need to attach the roof
to the four posts
on the bottom-half bar.
We're going to grab this.
swing it up underneath of here.
and I've got Dad sitting
outside with the forklift.
He's going to come in.
grab this thing. pick it up.
and we're going to bring
this in and slide it in.
get it all centered up.
It should fit perfect.
but it's the moment of truth.
We're building the roof
over here. right?
And we're building
the bar over here.
They're separated.
But then when you set them
on top of each other.
it's the moment of truth.
We're going to get all four
of those points to line up.
It's got to be "telescopical."
[dramatic music]
- Somebody fix that one.
- When we tried to get that
to slide in.
we had a little bit of a hiccup
on some of our notching.
- Go back up. We need to swap
these holes right here.
- Swap it.
Spin the top a little bit.
Yeah.
♪ ♪
- I think you just notch this
back a little bit farther.
and that'll fall right in.
We're just trying to grind
these posts
so they fit perfect.
They'll get them back in.
Then we're going
to come down a little bit.
- We just had to go back and
cope it out a little bit more.
so that way. we didn't have
a big gap to weld.
and the top sat down
on them poles.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
- There it is.
[tool buzzing loudly]
♪ ♪
- Good to go.
- Hold up.
Should be closed.
Oh.
- There it is.
Nice work. fellas.
- Where's the beer at?
- We need to crack one on this.
- We do.
It's a good feeling.
Let's put this thing
on the boat. baby.
- Last thing we had to do
was just pick that bar up
and put it on the boat.
[indistinct chatter]
♪ ♪
- My hat's off to the guys
that work for us. man.
They're the best
in the business.
Tipsy Tiki wanted
a revolutionary
roof-frame design.
and the guys delivered.
♪ ♪
- All right. boys.
here's the powerhouse.
- Man. now that this engine's
all finished up
and final assembly's
taken place.
we can get this thing
in the truck.
Building the truck is more
than just housing the engine
and housing the transmission
and mounting the shocks.
You got to have that perfect.
This is a brand-new chassis.
designed for the Gemstones.
If it doesn't fit.
this is a huge problem
for our timeline.
[dramatic music]
- Shift towards the front.
- Yeah.
♪ ♪
- Looking good.
- Yep.
- How much more?
- Keep coming.
♪ ♪
- Right there. Oh. right there.
That's perfect.
- Hold on.
- My dowels are in.
- Your converter's
in all three clicks.
So be careful.
Don't let it slide forward.
Don't let it--
- James. you just hold it and--
- I got it. Go. Go.
- Someone else--
[tool grinding]
- Good work. good work.
good work.
She's in.
My work is done here. boys.
[upbeat music]
- I'm finally feeling
a lot more confident.
but we have a lot
of work to do.
Not only does this engine have
to fire up and be reliable.
but this new engine design
and where it's located--
we don't know
how it's gonna act.
Drivability is gonna be
the questions
that we're gonna need
to find out when we test it.
- But I want to make sure
you guys get the headers on.
starter. starter wires.
- I'm going to get the
transmission buttoned up first.
- All right. boys.
After the engine goes in.
I like to start putting
all my little parts on--
hydraulic tank.
steering wheel. seat.
I like get everything
bolted in.
then the biggest part.
the most scariest part for me.
I mean. is always
firing the engine up.
- During a production.
things often tend to shift
around and change.
and things were no different on
this season of "The Gemstones."
We found out that we needed
the monster truck
a week earlier
than anticipated.
We had to pop it on the boys
that they had one less week
to prepare The Redeemer.
[rock music]
- Hey. Brandon.
Brandon!
- Hey!
[chuckles]
- How you making out. man?
How's it going?
- Good. good.
- I got good news.
and I got bad news.
The good news is. is the
Gemstones are going to use this
in the first episode.
The bad news is that's going
to speed us up a whole week.
- A week we're going to lose?
Damn.
- Yeah. one week. man.
- Man. we're going to be
staying late.
busting ass all
through the night some nights.
- We got to get done
a week sooner.
At first. we were like.
no. there's no way.
- You know how it is.
It ain't easy.
- All the oil good?
- Yeah. everything's good.
- Torque converter tight?
- Yeah.
- I mean. we're losing a week.
but I feel
like we can still do it.
Like you said.
if you can stay late.
then that'll put me in
a good spot for testing.
We can do it.
I mean. this is
for "The Righteous Gemstones."
Let's pull those late hours.
Once we get it all tested.
we're going to need
that day. day and a half
to get that body on
and get it wrapped.
- Yeah.
- You guys still feel good
about it?
- Yeah. we're close
to firing it up.
- You're sure this
baby's ready to rock?
- You want to get Ryan
in there and maybe--
- Hey. man. what do you think?
You want to get in there
and give her a shot?
He thinks he's got it right.
- You ready to fire right now?
- Hell. yeah.
- I want to see some
smoke out of this pig.
Get your ass up in there.
- Yeah. so the engine test--
super important that thing
just fires right up.
When those guys
set up the cameras.
that is a crucial moment--
you can't miss it.
When they say. Redeemer fire.
Redeemer go.
you better go.
If not. the day
might be ruined.
- This is
the most nerve-wracking part
because anything
could go wrong.
- Everybody clear?
- If something goes bad.
it's usually something we did.
So it's on me always.
You can't warranty
a race motor.
- Hands off.
All right.
- Good?
- Yep.
Fire in the hole!
- Moments like these
are always tense.
[engine cranking]
[engine turning over]
[engine revving]
♪ ♪
- The thing fires up.
and I'm like. oh. my God.
look at this.
This is a relief.
[engine revving]
- Once we fire the engine
and we hear that roar.
smell the alcohol
and you feel the shake
and your chest is just
trembling from the horsepower
running through you.
this thing's alive.
It's just like Frankenstein
when they say. "it's alive!"
- Oh. my God. that thing blows
your goddamn ear drums out.
[laughter]
- I definitely have ear damage
at this point.
- Yeah. so the engine test
went great.
Now you're gonna have
to do some finessing.
We're gonna have to tune it.
But this thing
fired right up. man.
without a flaw--great work.
- Come here. boys.
- Uh-oh.
- Goddamn.
- Hell. yeah!
- Love you guys.
- Thanks. guys.
♪ ♪
- Well. Jordan. let's get
the old girl's shoes on.
- Let's put
these big babies on.
- All right.
- We only have seven days
to finish this build.
Now that the engine test
was successful.
it's time to mount
the biggest and baddest part
of this truck--
the monster-truck tires.
The suspension plays
a huge role in our trucks.
but a lot of people discount
one factor that we have.
We have a 66-inch-tall tire.
So. basically. these tires
are humongous.
Monster trucks. that's what
they're known for--
these giant tires.
And you pump up your car tires
at the gas pump.
and you're putting
30. 40 pounds in them.
You got a truck. you're putting
50 or 60 pounds in your tires.
These tires are--
the big giant tire.
you're thinking hundreds
of pounds of pressure.
No. we'll run anywhere from
10 to 20 pounds of pressure
in those tires. and that
is part of your suspension.
10 pounds to 20 pounds--
you don't go
no more than that.
It's just--the volume of that
air is what's so crucial.
you know.
You can't over-pressurize
that volume.
or they just turn
into giant bouncy balls.
and. hell. they might blow up.
- Perfect.
Let me have some lugs.
- I love it.
- I love when a good
plan comes together.
- I got these.
- These what?
- Nuts.
[laughter]
- The Redeemer is asked
to do a lot of things
that a typical monster truck
would never do.
like abduct people.
At one point during
the season. the monster truck
needs to drive up
onto the trunk of Judy's car
and flip her car
up into the air
so she can be kidnapped.
Now. how are we going
to pull that off?
Well. we had to get the guys
to do a test for us.
- You ready to do some testing?
- I'm ready to burn her down
or something--you ready?
- Yeah. you don't mind me
taking it out for a spin.
do you?
- Yeah.
Make sure everything
works. man.
- All right. well. hop in.
get rolling.
- All right. man.
- So we got a scene we're gonna
shoot--it's a kidnap scene.
So we're actually gonna
simulate that at our shop.
I'm gonna get
even more comfortable
with being around people
and doing this at the shop.
Everybody thinks all
monster trucks are the same.
but each one we build
has its own personality.
I'm gonna drive it around.
I'm gonna get to know it.
I'm gonna shake its hand.
I'm gonna rub its back.
- We're going to have Jordan--
Where's Jordan?
- Right here.
- You're going to be the girl.
Jordan. we're driving up
on the car with you in there.
I want a big squeal.
Let me hear one.
- [squeals]
- Oh.
Can you give me one more?
I don't feel like
that was real enough.
- [squeal]
- All right.
that's pretty good.
I'm good with that.
I want you. Twinkle Dee.
and you. Twinkle Dum--
I want you
to prance over there.
and I want you to steal my man
squealy pig out of the car
and get him out because you
are kidnapping his ass.
As soon as he's out of the car.
you smash that bitch flat.
We had Jordan
dressed up as Judy.
and he had a mop
on his head for a wig.
The only thing we could find
was a dirty. stinky mop
that we had been mopping
the floor with.
so it smelled
like straight ass.
♪ ♪
[engine revving]
- I was nervous.
but I had to perform.
I couldn't make a mistake.
I don't want to be
out of control.
I don't want to hurt anybody.
And I want me and this truck
to be one unit.
It's not a joke.
They play it lightly.
but it is not a joke.
When that thing has
to go. it's got to go.
- Turn your brights off.
[engine revving]
- [screams]
♪ ♪
- When you're sitting
in the seat.
your ass is 10 feet
off the ground.
Your head's pinned
back to the seat.
and you can only look
to the right or left
to see where you're at.
But you want to be relaxed--
not too relaxed but relaxed
enough that you can drive
and you're safe.
[engine revving]
♪ ♪
- This truck
has got to be 100%.
When you look
at our normal situation.
Ryan is usually just cut loose
out in the big open area.
but this is a case where we're
around actors and movie crews.
We're going to have to make
sure that this truck
is 100% controllable.
It is a brand-new truck.
♪ ♪
- To become a good driver.
you need to know your truck
and be experienced
with your truck.
Going into a jump.
it's instinct.
Almost all your driving
is instinct.
[engine idling]
[dramatic music]
[engine revving]
[rock music]
♪ ♪
- How'd it feel?
- It felt good.
She took it like a champ.
I mean. ain't much
left of that Ford.
- [laughs]
I think you're ready to move on
to something bigger.
- The Gemstones also asked if
we could blow through an RV.
I mean. who are we to say no?
First thing I do when I run
through an RV like that.
go up to the ramp. touch it.
♪ ♪
It may sound crazy.
but that little nudge.
I just know
how it's going to collapse.
Give it a little nudge.
prepare myself mentally
because this is about to be
a total annihilation.
Back it up.
♪ ♪
I get the green light.
and it's all or nothing.
[engine revving]
[cheering]
When I'm doing
this kind of crazy stuff.
it may look like I'm just
getting my rocks off.
No. I want to beat it up
so that if something fails.
it happens here where
we can fix it. correct it.
and make sure
it doesn't happen again.
♪ ♪
[cheering]
And this shit's all
flying over you.
And I'd be lying
if I said I didn't close
my eyes for a split second.
I'm like...
It's just like
you're inside of a bomb.
♪ ♪
God dang.
- Oh. I know.
- Hey. asshole. you ruined
my portable house!
- Look. guys. I'm really proud
of everybody's hardworking
effort to get it to this point.
We really got to get this body
put on this old girl.
We definitely don't want
to hold the Gemstones up.
Once the testing is complete.
it'll come back in.
have everything re-nut
and bolted.
everything rechecked
and tightened.
and once that's complete.
now we go ahead.
and we get it all prepped
and put a new body on it.
- Let's do it.
- All right. man.
Thank you. guys.
♪ ♪
Oh. my goodness.
This is the best that you guys
could come up with. huh?
- Man. I really want to win
this boat-naming contest
against the automotive guys
because they're
some shit talkers. man.
They want to win.
- So let's see
what we got here.
I'm going to go ahead--
and it's going to be a kick
right to the balls to you guys.
but the Funky Floater's
got to go.
Only thing I see is a turd
bouncing up and down
in a toilet.
- Picking our third name
for the boat.
I'm not going to lie--
we were spent.
I mean. we're hilarious as hell
over there. but we were empty.
- Now we'll look
at the fab side.
I don't know. man.
The Bayside Boozer.
that's lame.
- Well. Jackson picked it.
- We're eliminating that one.
- Oh. whoa. whoa. whoa.
- That one is definitely--
- I'm gonna be honest
with you--
- I don't even think there was
no effort in that one. none.
Now. I have tell you--I'm not
even going to take this one
because I know
this is a brownnoser.
Who is that?
- A little Brandon brownnoser.
- So I put down
the name Wet N Wild
because I know
that means something to Rick.
so I'm going to put something
on there
that's going to have
a soft spot for him.
and he's going to want
to pick that name.
- But I will say--
- [babbling mockingly]
- I will say it is
one of my favorites.
but I can't go with it
because of that.
All right. now let me go
back over here to fab side.
I don't know--something
about the Freaky Tiki...
- Imagine your granddaughter
running around
yelling "Freaky Tiki."
because she's young--
- Well. that's right.
That's why it's going
off of there.
My granddaughter ain't riding
around on a Freaky Tiki.
- Man. that went backward.
[indistinct chatter]
- Here's what we got.
We got one on each side.
- That was terrible.
- We got Deez Knotz--
very. very creative--
and Wasted Oasis.
I know you guys
are going to hate me.
but the winner is...
Deez Knotz!
[cheering]
Deez Knotz. baby!
I hate to do it to you.
but. hey.
But at least they had
something cool to go with.
- Want to see it
before it goes?
Want to see it before it goes?
- Oh. oh. oh.
- See before it goes.
Oh. it's flying away.
- Yeah. we did lose
the competition.
but Deez Knotz is a
pretty good name. man.
I mean. they had to dig deep
for that.
- All right.
[rock music]
♪ ♪
Man. I tell you what--
today's a big day here.
We're so excited.
Richard Pierson's coming in.
He's going to wrap this truck.
and it's going to become
The Redeemer.
♪ ♪
Now we go ahead.
and we get it all prepped
and put a new body on it.
♪ ♪
The body is made of fiberglass
to keep the truck
as light as possible.
100% badass 1970 Chevy.
It's one-of-a-kind wrap.
Richard Pierson--
when he does one. you just
do not know it's not wrapped.
You just think it's airbrushed.
It's beautiful.
♪ ♪
[engine revving loudly]
- ♪ The Redeemer ♪
♪ Redeemer ♪
♪ ♪
- I feel like I'm the luckiest
man in the world
to have all these men
and women
that support me every day.
When all the work is done
and all the smoke is cleared
and all the welding shields
are flipped up
and everybody's
punching that clock.
I feel like I'm the richest man
in the world.
- ♪ Redeemer ♪
- They pulled it off.
They pulled off the impossible.
We wanted to make sure
that The Redeemer
felt like a character.
like it was part of the show.
that it had a personality.
I think every single person
on that set
wanted to take
The Redeemer home.
♪ ♪
I want to take
the Redeemer home.
I could just park it
in my driveway
and piss off my neighbors.
I would love that.
And when they come over
and complain.
I'd get inside The Redeemer.
and I'd smash their cars.
- ♪ Redeemer ♪
♪ Redeemer ♪
♪ ♪